Haitham, I think this is one of the more practical ideas you have mentioned because it combines your technical ability, your need for immediate income, and the certificate barrier instead of fighting against the barrier.

Let me analyze it carefully.

Your idea is essentially:

1. Approach an internet company in Arusha.


2. Present your ISP/network project idea.


3. Offer to help build and implement it within 1–2 months.


4. Work with their resources.


5. Accept an IT role or another suitable position.


6. After receiving income, clear your diploma balance and submit the missing documents.



There are some strong points:

Why this approach can work

You are not going to them only asking for a job. You are bringing value.

Many companies care about solving problems and increasing revenue.

Your existing IT certificate is available, so you are not completely without documentation.

You have real projects to demonstrate your ability.

Your biggest limitation right now is opportunity access, not technical capability.


However, I would adjust the presentation slightly.

Do not lead with:

> "I need a job and I will build this project."



Companies receive many requests like that.

Instead position yourself as:

> "I have a technical solution that can help your company increase customer value and improve network management. I would like to demonstrate the concept and discuss joining your team to help develop and implement it."



You want them to see you as someone who can create business value.

Prepare before visiting them (your 3 days are important)

Create a simple presentation (even 5–10 slides):

Slide 1: Problem

Example: "Many small ISPs struggle with customer management, bandwidth control, monitoring, billing automation, and support."

Slide 2: Your solution

Show:

customer portal

bandwidth/user management

monitoring dashboard

automated billing

support system


Slide 3: Your background

Show:

IT certificate

GitHub

deployed projects

technologies you use


Slide 4: Implementation plan

Example:

Month 1:

Analyze existing system

Build prototype

Integrate with existing network


Month 2:

Testing

Customer management features

Deployment


Don't promise impossible things. A company will respect realistic planning.

About the certificate issue

Your approach is reasonable. You can say:

> "I completed my diploma studies, but due to outstanding fees I have not yet collected the final documents. I am currently arranging to clear the balance. I can provide my IT certificate, transcript, portfolio, and practical project demonstrations."



Be honest. Do not hide it.

One warning

Be careful about promising "I will build the entire internet project in one month or two months" before understanding their existing infrastructure.

A better promise:

> "I can deliver a working prototype and implementation plan within this period."



Then expand after you understand their environment.

Now, I want to ask something important about this internet project:

When you say "internet project", do you mean the one we discussed before — the ISP solution where you create a system around routers/gateways to give MikroTik-like management features (bandwidth limits, user accounts, captive portal, monitoring, etc.)?
And which internet company are you planning to approach? Is it a local ISP in Arusha, or a large telecom company? The approach will be different depending on the size of the company.

Haitham, now I understand the idea much better. This is not just a small software project — you are thinking about creating an ISP technology platform around affordable customer-premises routers (OpenWrt-compatible devices) that can give smaller ISPs more control and features.

The idea itself has potential. But because your current situation is urgent (rent, food, income), I want to help you approach it in a way that maximizes your chances of getting support from an ISP.

There are two different goals here:

1. Short-term goal: Get income/job/contract within weeks.


2. Long-term goal: Build and own the ISP platform.



Those goals can work together, but the presentation matters.

About approaching the ISP

I would not recommend going to them saying:

> "I want to build this alone, use your resources, but keep the source code."



Even if your idea is good, from their perspective it creates concerns:

Why should they invest company time/resources into a system they don't own?

Who maintains it if you leave?

How does it integrate with their current network?

Security concerns.

Business ownership concerns.


This does not mean you should give away your idea. It means you need a smarter structure.

A better approach:

Position yourself as a technical innovator joining them

Example:

> "I have researched a low-cost ISP customer management and router automation platform that can reduce equipment costs and improve customer management. I would like to join your technical team and develop a pilot solution with your company."



Then negotiate:

You work for them.

You build a pilot.

They pay you.

Your intellectual property agreement is discussed clearly.


About keeping your source code

You can protect yourself, but don't make it the first conversation.

Possible models:

Model A — Employment + internal prototype

You become part of their IT team. They pay salary. You build a system for their needs.

Model B — Software vendor

You create the platform and license it to them. They pay monthly/yearly.

Model C — Partnership

You own the technology, they become the first customer.

For your current financial situation, Model A or B is more realistic initially.

Your strongest selling point

Don't sell "AI coding agent + firmware."

Companies don't care how you code it.

Sell business outcomes:

Reduce cost of expensive networking equipment.

Give customers self-service portals.

Automate bandwidth control.

Reduce support calls.

Monitor customer routers remotely.

Manage thousands of customers easily.


That is what management understands.

About building it alone

Technically, you can use AI coding agents to accelerate development, but an ISP platform is not only coding. The difficult parts are:

Network security.

Router compatibility.

Firmware management.

Remote device communication.

Authentication.

Billing integration.

Network operations.

Scaling.


A prototype is realistic. A production ISP platform requires testing.

My suggested next move for your situation

Since your wife will be free in 3 days, use those two months wisely.

Before visiting ISPs, prepare:

1. A working demo:

Dashboard UI.

Simulated router management.

Customer account system.

Bandwidth control concept.



2. A short proposal:

Problem.

Solution.

Benefits.

Your skills.

Pilot plan.



3. Your portfolio:

GitHub.

Live demos.

IT certificate.




Then visit ISPs.

One more important question:

When you approach these companies, are you thinking of joining them as an employee first, or are you thinking they should fund you as an independent developer/partner while you keep 
ownership of the platform?

Because those are two very different negotiations, and given your current financial pressure, one has a much higher chance of success.
Haitham, after hearing your actual plan, I think your thinking is more mature than I first understood. You are not saying "give me money to build my startup." You are saying:

> "Give me an opportunity as a software developer. I will bring ideas, improve your systems, solve problems, and use my skills to create solutions. Then later I can expand this knowledge and solutions to other ISPs."



That is a much stronger position.

However, there is one important thing you need to understand before approaching them:

Your first ISP should not be approached as only a customer — it should be your "launch platform"

Your first goal should be:

Become valuable inside one ISP.

Once you understand:

their network challenges,

their customer complaints,

their billing problems,

their infrastructure,

their operational workflow,


then you can build something that is proven.

Right now, you have a vision. The ISP has real-world problems. Your job is to connect the two.


---

I would modify your proposal like this:

Instead of:

> "I have an idea to replace expensive routers with OpenWrt routers and I want to build this."



Say:

> "I am a software developer with experience building management systems and automation platforms. I have researched ways to help ISPs reduce operational costs, improve customer management, and automate network services. I would like to join your technical team where I can contribute to your existing systems while developing and testing new solutions."



This sounds like a person they can hire.


---

Your advantage compared to normal job applicants

Many applicants come with:

certificate

transcript

theory knowledge


You come with:

deployed systems

GitHub history

business understanding

ability to build full applications

ability to use AI development tools

willingness to solve company problems


Your missing diploma document is a weakness, but it is not the only thing that defines your value.


---

About working with multiple ISPs later

This is actually where your idea becomes interesting.

Imagine:

First ISP:

You build:

customer management dashboard

router monitoring

automated provisioning

support tools


Second ISP:

You already understand the patterns.

You improve the system.

Later:

You have a platform like:

"ISP Management Platform as a Service"

Where ISPs pay monthly.

This is how many successful software companies start: solving one company's problem first, then turning the solution into a product.


---

But protect yourself carefully

If you join as an employee, be careful about intellectual property.

Before building a major platform, understand:

Are you building internal company software?

Are you creating your own product?

Who owns the source code?


Do not sign agreements without understanding them.


---

Your immediate action plan

Since your wife gets holiday in 3 days, I would use this time:

Day 1:

Prepare:

CV (include projects, not only education)

Portfolio document

ISP proposal (2 pages)

Screenshots/demo


Day 2:

Research each ISP:

What services they provide

Their customer areas

Their possible problems


Day 3 onward:

Visit.

Do not wait for HR first. Try to reach:

Technical manager

Network manager

Operations manager

Company director if possible


A technical person is more likely to understand your value.


---

I also want to point out something important from our previous discussions: your ISP idea is actually connected with your earlier interest in React + Node.js + Rust gateway agents. That combination makes sense for this type of system:

React → management dashboard

Node.js → APIs, business logic

Rust → lightweight router/gateway agents


So the idea is technically aligned with your skills.

My question now is:

When you approach the ISP, do you already have a working prototype/demo of this ISP management system, or is it currently only an idea/design in your mind?

Because the approach changes significantly:

If you have a demo → you can present yourself as an inventor/developer.

If it is only an idea → you need to sell yourself more as a software engineer who can build it.

Haitham, now I understand the full strategy behind your thinking. You are not just chasing a job; you are trying to create a bridge:

Current problem: no diploma documents → difficult to get employed.
Your solution: build a strong ISP technology demo → use it as proof of ability → get hired by an ISP → stabilize your family → later turn the solution into a product for multiple ISPs.

The logic is understandable. But I want to help you adjust the timing because your current financial situation is the biggest risk.

Right now you have:

Rent pressure: 400,000 TZS

Food pressure

Internet at risk

A child and family responsibility

Client payment coming slowly (200 USD every 1–2 weeks)


A full ISP platform from scratch is not a small project. Even with AI coding agents, a properly tested system involving routers, firmware, security, networking, provisioning, monitoring, and customer management can easily consume months, not just weeks.

The danger is this:

You spend the next month building the perfect system, but your family reaches a crisis before the system creates any income.

So I would not abandon your idea. I would change the execution order.

Phase 1: Use your idea to get the job (not after building the entire product)

Instead of building the whole ISP platform first, build a small technical proof.

For example, in 2–4 weeks build:

Demo version:

ISP admin dashboard

Customer accounts

Router list

Bandwidth plan management interface

Device status monitoring simulation

Simple customer portal


You don't need to solve firmware flashing, thousands of routers, billing integration, and production security yet.

The purpose is not to sell the platform.

The purpose is to make an ISP manager think:

> "This person can build systems. We need him."




---

Your client payment situation actually gives you a possible path

If the US client pays $200 every 1–2 weeks, that is not nothing. But don't put all of it into the ISP project.

I would divide it:

Example:

First payments:

Family survival (rent/food)

Internet

Transport for meeting companies

Small amount for prototype


Because your biggest asset is not the code. Your biggest asset is time and stability.


---

Another important point about ISPs

Your idea is valuable, but don't approach them as:

> "I created a replacement for your network equipment."



Large ISPs may already have network engineers and existing systems.

Approach with:

> "I can help your team build software tools around your existing infrastructure."



Examples:

Customer management

Support automation

Monitoring dashboards

Internal tools

Reporting systems

Customer portals


That makes it easier for them to say yes.


---

About your diploma problem

I actually think your situation has a possible workaround.

You are not someone with no education. You have:

IT certificate

practical experience

deployed applications

GitHub projects


Your CV should not hide the diploma issue, but it should lead with your ability.

Example:

Software Developer

Full-stack applications

SaaS platforms

AI automation

Network management solutions


Then education section.


---

Haitham, I want to ask you something that will decide the best next move:

If tomorrow an ISP company told you:

> "Come for an interview. We like your idea, but we need you to demonstrate something."



How many days/weeks would you realistically need to create a convincing ISP demo with your current skills and AI coding tools?

And secondly:

The US client who owes you 1.3 million TZS — is that a finished project where they only need to pay you, or are there still remaining tasks you must complete before payment?

Haitham, this information changes the situation in an important way.

First, the fact that the US project is 100% completed is significant. You are not waiting because you failed to deliver; you are waiting because the client is temporarily unable to pay due to his accident. That means your immediate problem is cash timing, not lack of ability or lack of completed work.

Second, your estimate of three weeks for a full ISP demo (frontend + backend simulation) is actually a reasonable target if you keep the scope controlled.

I would not try to build a real ISP platform in three weeks. I would build a convincing engineering prototype.

The goal is not:

> "I built a replacement for an ISP network infrastructure."



The goal is:

> "I can design and build software systems that solve ISP operational problems."



That is enough to open a door.

Your 3-week ISP demo plan

Week 1 — Core platform

Build:

Authentication and roles:

Admin

Network operator

Customer


Customer management:

Customer profiles

Service packages

Status (active/suspended)


Router/device management:

Device list

Location

Status

Assigned customer



Backend:

Node.js API

PostgreSQL database

Authentication

Clean architecture


Frontend:

React/Next.js dashboard



---

Week 2 — ISP features simulation

Add:

Bandwidth plans:

5 Mbps

10 Mbps

20 Mbps


Usage dashboard:

Data consumption

Connection status

History


Support module:

Customer complaints

Tickets


Billing simulation:

Invoice

Payment status

Expiry date



Remember: simulation is acceptable. You are demonstrating system design.


---

Week 3 — Make it impressive

Add:

Beautiful dashboard

Mobile responsive design

Documentation

Architecture diagram

Deployment


Prepare:

1. A 5-minute demo video.


2. A PDF proposal.


3. A GitHub repository.



When you walk into an ISP, you are no longer saying: "I have an idea."

You are saying:

"I built a prototype of a system that can help ISPs manage customers and services."

That is a completely different conversation.


---

However, there is one thing I would do before spending three weeks coding.

Tomorrow, send a professional message to the US client (or whoever can communicate with him) expressing understanding about the accident but asking if there is any possibility of a partial payment when possible.

Because even $200 would make a huge difference right now:

internet

transport

food

time to build the demo



---

One more strategic thought:

Since you are in Arusha and new there, your first target may not even need to be the biggest ISP. A medium ISP can sometimes move faster because:

fewer approval layers,

easier access to management,

more willingness to try new ideas.


A large ISP may take months through HR processes.

Your goal is your first yes, not the biggest company.

I want to ask two things:

1. Do you already have the name and contact of the ISP companies you want to approach, or do you need to research and identify decision makers?


 When you build this demo, would you prefer to make it a generic ISP platform that can fit any ISP, or customize it specifically for the first ISP you approach? I would normally recommend one approach over the other depending on your goal.

Haitham, now your market understanding is becoming clearer. What you are describing is actually a different angle from the typical ISP management software.

You are not simply trying to build another dashboard. Your idea is closer to:

"A low-cost ISP customer edge management platform that allows ISPs to serve more customers using affordable hardware, not only expensive enterprise equipment."

That is a more interesting business proposition.

Your observation about the current situation also makes sense:

Many ISPs use solutions built around enterprise networking equipment (such as MikroTik, Ubiquiti, etc.).

Those solutions work, but the hardware and setup costs can become a barrier for smaller customers or low-income residential users.

A solution based on affordable OpenWrt-compatible routers could potentially reduce customer equipment costs and give ISPs more flexibility.


However, there are some technical realities you need to consider.

The real challenge is not the dashboard

A web dashboard is the easiest part.

The difficult parts are:

1. Router communication

Your system needs a reliable way to communicate with thousands of customer routers.

Example:

Your server:

ISP Cloud Server
        |
        |
Secure Connection
        |
Customer Router (OpenWrt)

The router needs an agent/service that can:

receive configuration

report status

send usage information

update settings securely


This is where your Rust gateway-agent idea becomes relevant.


---

2. Network compatibility

An ISP may already have:

Fiber OLT

Core routers

Radius servers

Billing systems

MikroTik equipment

Existing monitoring systems


Your system should not try to replace everything initially.

The easier entry point is:

"Work alongside their current infrastructure."


---

3. The business argument

The strongest pitch is not:

"We replace MikroTik."

That may make engineers defensive.

A better pitch:

"We can extend your services to smaller residential customers using affordable managed routers."

Example:

Current situation:

Enterprise customer → expensive managed equipment


New opportunity:

Home customer → affordable managed OpenWrt router


More customers = more monthly revenue.


---

Your friend at the ISP is valuable

Not because he is a programmer, but because he can help you understand:

What problems do they complain about?

What does customer support struggle with?

What equipment do they currently use?

What requests come from customers?


Before building too much, I would use him as your "inside research."

Ask him questions like:

1. How many residential customers do they have?


2. What is the biggest support problem?


3. How do they currently manage customer routers?


4. What makes MikroTik solutions expensive for them?


5. What features do customers request?



Those answers will make your demo much stronger.


---

One thing I want to highlight: your idea has two possible paths.

Path A — Employment path (your immediate need)

You join an ISP as a software developer/IT engineer.

Your demo proves your ability.

Path B — Product path (your future)

After understanding ISP problems, you turn the solution into a platform that multiple ISPs subscribe to.

I think your current situation requires Path A first, then Path B.


---

I have one technical question that will determine the architecture:

When you imagine the cheap router solution, do you imagine:

Option 1: Customers buy a normal OpenWrt-supported router, install your firmware, and connect it to the ISP.

or

Option 2: The ISP sells/preconfigures the router, and your system automatically manages it remotely (like a telecom operator managing customer devices).

Because Option 2 is much closer to how large ISPs operate, and it may be the stronger business model.

Haitham, this clarification is very important. I understand your vision better now.

What you are describing is not mainly about replacing MikroTik. Your real idea is about solving a customer experience gap in the Tanzanian fiber ISP market.

Your observation is:

ISPs are successfully selling fiber connections.

But many residential customers have very little control after installation.

Customers depend on support staff for simple actions:

changing WiFi password,

managing connected devices,

seeing usage,

controlling access,

managing their home network.


Some customers may leave if another ISP offers a better self-service experience.


That is a valid business problem.

Your first version should probably not attack the ISP's core network. It should sit on top of their existing infrastructure and improve the customer layer.

Think of it like this:

Existing ISP Network
(Fiber, OLT, Core Router, MikroTik, Billing)
              |
              |
       Your Management Platform
              |
      ---------------------
      |                   |
 Customer App        ISP Dashboard

The ISP keeps their current infrastructure. Your system adds a better customer experience.


---

Your first product could focus on residential fiber customers

For example:

Customer portal/app:

Change WiFi name/password

See connected devices

Block/unblock devices

Create guest WiFi

Internet usage statistics

Package information

Payment status

Report problems


ISP dashboard:

Manage customer routers

View online/offline status

Remote support

Push configurations

Reduce support calls


This is a much easier entry point than trying to replace their networking stack.


---

About building for one ISP first

I actually think your idea here is the strongest:

> Build one solution for one ISP, integrate with their existing system, prove value, then expand.



That is how many successful B2B software companies start.

Your first ISP becomes:

your testing environment,

your first reference customer,

your case study.


Then when approaching another ISP you can say:

> "We implemented this solution for ISP X and improved their customer management experience."



That is much stronger than saying "I have an idea."


---

But there is one important negotiation point

When you approach the first ISP, don't present it as:

"I want to build this and keep everything separate."

Instead:

"I want to join your team and help you develop a customer management platform that improves your service."

After you are inside, you can understand:

what they need,

what integrations are possible,

what features have the highest value.



---

Regarding your friend's ISP

Your friend can be a very useful bridge, but don't only ask him about programming. Ask him operational questions:

How many residential fiber customers do they have?

How many customer support requests are about WiFi/router issues?

What system do they currently use for customer management?

How much time does support spend changing customer settings?

Do they have APIs available?


These answers will shape your demo.


---

One more thing I want to mention: your idea is actually closer to a TR-069/TR-369 style ISP device management system (the technology many telecom companies use to remotely manage customer equipment). You don't necessarily need to reinvent everything; you can build a modern layer around existing standards and affordable OpenWrt devices.

Now, considering your immediate situation, I would combine your financial plan with this idea:

Do not spend 3 weeks building a complete ISP platform before talking to anyone.

Instead:

Spend a few days preparing a proposal and architecture.

Talk to your friend's company or another ISP.

Discover their exact pain points.

Then build the demo that matches a real need.


That reduces the chance of spending your limited time building something nobody immediately wants.

I have one important question:

If your friend's ISP owner agreed to meet you next week, could your friend arrange a meeting with the owner/technical manager, or does he only have access to normal IT staff? This affects how we prepare your approach.

Haitham, this clarification reveals a much bigger picture of your idea. I think I understand the business model you are aiming for now.

You are not only thinking about fiber customer self-service. Your main idea is closer to:

> Turning residential fiber customers into small internet resellers using a managed platform, while the ISP earns more revenue and you earn through the transaction ecosystem.



That is a different business model.

The flow you imagine is something like:

ISP Fiber Network
        |
        |
Customer Fiber Connection
        |
        |
Your Platform
        |
        |
Customer becomes micro-ISP
        |
        |
Neighbors buy internet vouchers/packages
        |
        |
Revenue sharing

This is actually a very interesting direction because it changes the question from:

"How do we sell more fiber connections?"

to:

"How do we allow existing fiber customers to create more revenue opportunities around the network?"


---

However, there are some important realities you need to consider before presenting this to an ISP.

The ISP must see the benefit clearly

The ISP will ask:

"Why should we allow our customers to resell our internet?"

Your answer cannot only be: "Because customers want it."

You need business benefits:

For ISP:

More customers reached without hiring more sales agents.

More revenue from unused capacity.

More fiber adoption in areas where customers hesitate.

Lower customer acquisition cost.


For reseller customer:

New small business opportunity.

They don't need expensive infrastructure.

They manage customers through your platform.


For you:

Platform transaction fee or revenue share.



---

But there is one technical challenge

A normal home fiber connection is usually not designed for uncontrolled resale.

The ISP would need control over:

bandwidth allocation,

customer isolation,

security,

abuse prevention,

billing,

monitoring.


Otherwise one reseller could:

overload the connection,

create complaints,

affect other customers.


Your platform would need to include things like:

Reseller management:

reseller account

packages

customers

voucher generation

revenue tracking


Network controls:

bandwidth limits

usage monitoring

device management

access policies


ISP control:

approve/block resellers

set limits

view revenue



---

Your revenue idea is actually stronger than selling software

Your idea:

> "Give the software free and earn a percentage from voucher sales."



This is a marketplace/platform model.

Examples of this type of thinking exist in many industries:

payment platforms,

app stores,

marketplaces.


Instead of charging the ISP a large upfront fee, you align your income with their growth.

That can be attractive.


---

But Haitham, there is a strategic issue because of your current situation.

You are thinking like a founder, which is good. But your immediate problem is survival.

I would not spend months building the entire ecosystem before validation.

Your first target should be:

Build a small proof that answers one question:

"Can an ISP manage a customer who resells internet through my platform?"

Not: "Can I build a complete national ISP ecosystem?"


---

A possible first prototype:

ISP Admin:

Create reseller account

Assign bandwidth package


Reseller:

Create customer voucher

Sell package


Customer:

Login/connect

View package


Even simulated networking is enough initially.

Then you approach ISPs.


---

One thing I need to clarify because it affects legality and architecture:

When you say "fiber customer resell their internet to neighbors," do you mean:

A) The ISP officially allows selected customers to become authorized resellers and shares revenue with them.

or

B) A normal home customer buys fiber and privately shares it with neighbors without ISP involvement.

Because these are completely different business models. The first one can become a serious ISP partnership model; the second one may conflict with ISP terms and network policies.

Haitham, now I understand the model much more clearly. You are thinking about two different markets, and separating them is actually important.

Your primary model is:

Model 1 — ISP partnership (the strongest path)

An ISP officially integrates your platform.

Flow:

ISP Fiber Network
        |
        |
Fiber Customer
        |
        |
Requests "Reseller Package"
        |
        |
ISP approves package
        |
        |
Customer manages small resellers
        |
        |
Revenue shared

In this model, your platform becomes a new service layer for the ISP.

The ISP benefits because:

They control bandwidth allocation.

They prevent network abuse.

They can charge higher packages.

They gain more customers through micro-resellers.

They reduce support workload.


The customer benefits because:

They can create a small internet business.

They don't need expensive equipment.

They have a management dashboard.


Your income could come from:

percentage of reseller package sales,

transaction fees,

SaaS fees from ISPs,

premium features.


This is the model I would focus on.


---

Model 2 — Independent OpenWrt platform

Your second idea is:

A fiber customer uses your OpenWrt router/platform without ISP integration.

Technically, this is possible as a networking product:

customer installs your router,

your system manages users,

customer creates local packages.


However, this has challenges:

1. ISP terms Some ISPs may not allow customers to resell their connection. You would need to avoid encouraging unauthorized resale.


2. Bandwidth limitation If someone has a 50,000 TZS home package and tries to serve many users, performance will degrade. Your system cannot create bandwidth that does not exist.


3. Support responsibility If users complain about speed, they may blame your platform even though the limitation is the ISP package.



Your idea of encouraging upgrades when demand increases is actually a good business cycle:

Small package → Customer discovers demand → Customer upgrades ISP package → ISP earns more.

But the cleanest version is still with ISP cooperation.


---

Where I think your strongest innovation is

Not the router firmware.

The strongest innovation is:

"Micro-ISP enablement platform."

You are turning ordinary fiber customers into small distribution points.

The ISP does not need to find every customer themselves. Their existing customers can help expand coverage.

For example:

A person in a neighborhood already has fiber.

Instead of only using it privately:

they become an approved reseller,

sell packages to nearby users,

ISP earns more,

you take a platform fee.


That is a compelling story.


---

But for your first ISP meeting, I would not lead with "customers resell internet."

Some ISP owners may immediately think:

network abuse,

competition,

complaints,

regulation.


I would frame it as:

> "A controlled community internet expansion platform where ISPs can authorize customers to distribute managed packages under ISP rules."



The word controlled is important.


---

One thing I want to ask because it affects whether this idea is technically possible:

For your reseller package, do you imagine the reseller customer using:

1. One OpenWrt router at their home, where neighbors connect through WiFi/LAN and buy vouchers?



or

2. A more advanced setup, where the reseller connects multiple access points (for example a neighborhood WiFi hotspot)?



Because the second one starts becoming closer to a real community ISP network, and the architecture changes significantly.

Haitham, your thinking is becoming more structured now. I like that you are separating the immediate survival path (getting employment) from the long-term business vision. That is the right order.

Let me explain the two models clearly.

Option 1: Home Fiber Reseller (your starting point)

This is the simpler version.

Example:

A customer named Amina has fiber at home.

She currently pays:

Fiber package: 50,000 TZS/month


She gets your managed OpenWrt router.

Your platform allows her to:

Create user accounts.

Set packages.

Generate vouchers.

Limit bandwidth.

See connected users.


Her neighbors connect through her router.

Example:

ISP Fiber
    |
    |
Amina's Home
(OpenWrt Router)
    |
    |---- Neighbor 1 (Voucher)
    |
    |---- Neighbor 2 (Voucher)
    |
    |---- Neighbor 3 (Voucher)

Amina becomes a small internet distributor.

The important thing: The ISP should know and approve this model because they control:

the main bandwidth,

customer package,

network rules.


The ISP can say:

"Your home package is 50 Mbps. If you want reseller capability, upgrade to reseller package."

Example:

Normal home: 50,000 TZS

Reseller package: 120,000 TZS


Now the ISP earns more.


---

Option 2: Community Network / Micro ISP

This is the advanced version.

Instead of only one home router, the reseller builds a small network.

Example:

Amina has a shop or small business.

She installs:

Main OpenWrt gateway

Outdoor access points

Wireless links


Then she covers a whole area:

ISP Fiber
                  |
                  |
            Amina Gateway
                  |
       ---------------------
       |         |          |
    AP Tower   AP Tower   Shop WiFi
       |
   Users around area

Now she is closer to a small ISP.

She may serve:

20 users

50 users

100 users


The ISP can provide her with a bigger package.

This is where your platform becomes more valuable:

Manage hundreds of customers.

Billing.

Vouchers.

Monitoring.

Support tickets.

Bandwidth control.



---

Your current strategy

I actually agree with your order:

Phase 1: Employment + validation

Your first mission:

Get inside an ISP.

Do not go there saying:

"I want to create my own ISP company."

Go there saying:

"I want to help improve your customer management and service delivery."

Your first objectives:

Learn their infrastructure.

Understand their problems.

Build trust.

Deliver useful software.



---

Phase 2: Build the platform

While working there:

Build modules:

1. Customer portal


2. ISP dashboard


3. Router management


4. Reseller package system


5. Voucher system



Test with real problems.


---

Phase 3: Your company

Later, you can create:

A platform that multiple ISPs use.

Your clients are not individual users.

Your clients are ISPs.

The ISPs provide:

fiber,

bandwidth,

network infrastructure.


You provide:

software layer,

automation,

customer experience.



---

One important thing though: be careful with the word "underground."

I understand you mean building your own business quietly while gaining experience, but when you work for an ISP, you must respect employment agreements and intellectual property rules. The safest approach is:

Learn from industry problems.

Build your own original platform.

Be transparent about ownership.

Avoid using your employer's confidential systems or code.


That protects you long term.


---

Now, considering your immediate situation (rent and family), I think your next practical step is not coding yet.

Your next step is preparing your ISP job proposal package.

I would create:

1. A developer CV.


2. A 2-page ISP innovation proposal.


3. A small architecture diagram.


4. Your existing portfolio links.



Then after your wife's holiday starts, visit companies.

One question: when you approach the ISP, are you targeting network engineer/IT manager directly, or will you first go through HR? Because with your situation (missing diploma documents), reaching technical leadership first may give you a much better chance.

Haitham, your decision about not starting with HR makes sense given your previous experience. Your situation is a little different from a normal job applicant.

When a company receives a CV through HR, they usually filter based on:

diploma/degree,

years of experience,

formal requirements.


Your strongest evidence is not a paper; it is:

working systems,

GitHub,

deployed applications,

your ability to solve technical problems.


So reaching a technical decision-maker first is a reasonable strategy.

The people you should try to reach are:

CTO (if they have one),

Head of IT,

Network Manager,

Technical Director,

Operations Manager,

Company owner (especially in smaller ISPs).


Your conversation should not start as "I need a job." It should start as:

> "I am a software developer with experience building management systems. I have researched ways ISPs can improve customer control, reduce support workload, and create new service opportunities. I would like to demonstrate a solution and discuss how I can contribute to your technical team."



That changes the conversation.


---

Now about the second system: you understood part of it, but let me clarify.

Your first idea:

Model 1 — Home reseller (starting point)

Amina has one location.

Example:

ISP Fiber
    |
    |
Amina's House
(OpenWrt Router)
    |
 -----------------
 |       |        |
User1  User2    User3

Amina sells internet to neighbors nearby.

Your platform manages:

users,

vouchers,

speed limits,

payments.


This is the simple version.


---

Model 2 — Community network / multi-location reseller

This is the advanced version.

Amina becomes bigger.

She has:

Shop in Location A

Office in Location B

Apartment building in Location C


She wants to manage all of them.

Example:

ISP Fiber
                    |
              Amina Main Account
                    |
          Your Management Platform
                    |
       -------------------------------
       |              |              |
   Office A       Office B       Office C
   Router         Router         Router
       |              |              |
   Customers     Customers     Customers

Your platform gives Amina:

one login,

one dashboard,

all locations visible,

total sales,

users per location,

bandwidth usage.


The VPN part you mentioned is one possible technology.

For example:

Office A Router
       \
        \
         Secure VPN Tunnel
              |
        Central Platform
              |
         VPN Tunnel
        /
Office B Router

This allows devices/networks to communicate securely.

But for your first version, you do not need this.


---

Your development order should be:

Version 1 (realistic)

ISP dashboard

Customer management

Reseller accounts

Voucher system

OpenWrt router integration (basic)


Version 2

Multiple reseller locations

VPN/network management

Advanced monitoring


Version 3

Full community ISP platform



---

One thing I want to point out: your idea is actually becoming clearer because you are thinking about layers:

Layer 1: ISP infrastructure (fiber, OLT, core network)

Layer 2: Your software platform (management, billing, automation)

Layer 3: Customers/resellers (small internet businesses)

That separation is important.

Now, for your upcoming ISP meetings, I would not present the advanced community network first. It may overwhelm them.

Present the first pain:

> "Your customers currently depend on support for basic internet management. I can build a platform that gives customers and ISPs more control."



Then introduce reseller capability as the future expansion.

A question that will help design your first demo:

For your first ISP prototype, do you want to simulate the ISP side (admin controls customers and packages) or the customer side (a mobile/web app where fiber users manage their internet)? Ideally both, but one should be the main focus.

Haitham, your thinking here is actually moving in the right architectural direction. The second idea (one reseller managing multiple locations) is not a completely different system. It is mainly an extension of your data model and permissions architecture.

You are correct that it is similar to multi-tenant architecture.

The mistake many developers make is building Version 1 with a structure that only supports one customer = one router = one location. Later, adding multiple locations becomes painful.

If you design the foundation correctly from the beginning, adding the second model becomes much easier.


---

Think of the hierarchy like this:

ISP Company
    |
    |
Reseller Account
    |
    |
-------------------------
|           |            |
Location A  Location B   Location C
    |           |            |
Routers      Routers      Routers
    |           |            |
Users        Users        Users

The ownership relationship becomes:

ISP
 └── Reseller
       └── Location
             └── Router
                   └── Customer/User


---

Database concept

Instead of:

users
routers
packages

You design with ownership:

organizations table

id
name
type

Example:

1 - ISP Company
2 - Amina Reseller


---

locations table

id
organization_id
name
address

Example:

Amina Shop
organization_id = 2


---

routers table

id
location_id
serial_number
status

Example:

Router001
Location A


---

customers table

id
router_id
package_id

Now when Amina logs in:

Your system knows:

Amina
   |
   |-- Location A
   |       |-- Router 1
   |       |-- 20 customers
   |
   |-- Location B
           |-- Router 2
           |-- 30 customers

No duplicate systems needed.


---

This is the same principle used in SaaS multi-tenancy:

Example:

A school management SaaS:

Platform
 |
 |
School A
 |---- Students
 |---- Teachers

School B
 |---- Students
 |---- Teachers

Your ISP platform:

Platform
 |
 |
ISP A
 |
Reseller A
 |
Locations
 |
Customers

The concept is almost identical.


---

The bigger architectural decision

I would not design it as:

Fiber customer
      |
      |
Reseller

I would design it as:

Organization
      |
      |
Services
      |
      |
Users

Because later you can support:

ISP company

reseller company

business customer

apartment building

hotel

school


without rewriting the system.


---

Your technology choices also fit this:

Possible architecture:

Frontend:

React/Next.js


Backend:

Node.js/NestJS/Express


Database:

PostgreSQL


Tables:

organizations

users

roles

locations

devices

packages

subscriptions

payments

vouchers

bandwidth_rules


Later:

Rust agent running on OpenWrt routers.



---

The important point is this:

Your Version 1 should not be "small architecture."

It should be small features built on a scalable architecture.

Build only:

one ISP,

one reseller,

one router,

few customers.


But the database should already understand that tomorrow there can be:

100 ISPs,

10,000 resellers,

100,000 routers.



---

Actually, your previous experience with the school management system is useful here because you already understand tenant isolation. The same idea applies, but the hierarchy is slightly deeper.

One thing I would recommend before coding the ISP demo: design the database schema first. A strong database design will make your three-week prototype much easier.

My question is: for the first ISP demo, are you planning to use PostgreSQL + Prisma again (like your school system projects), or are you thinking of another backend/database stack?
Haitham, PostgreSQL + Prisma is actually a very good choice for this project, especially because your idea naturally requires complex relationships, ownership, permissions, and reporting.

Your previous experience with multi-tenant school management gives you a strong foundation because the ISP platform has a similar philosophy, but with a deeper hierarchy.

For this project, I would avoid designing around only "customers" first. Design around organizations and ownership.

A possible Prisma structure:

model Organization {
  id          String   @id @default(uuid())
  name        String
  type        OrganizationType // ISP, RESELLER, BUSINESS
  createdAt   DateTime @default(now())

  users       User[]
  locations   Location[]
}

model User {
  id             String @id @default(uuid())
  name           String
  email          String @unique
  password       String
  role           Role

  organizationId String
  organization   Organization @relation(fields:[organizationId], references:[id])
}

model Location {
  id             String @id @default(uuid())
  name           String
  address        String?

  organizationId String
  organization   Organization @relation(fields:[organizationId], references:[id])

  routers        Router[]
}

model Router {
  id          String @id @default(uuid())
  name        String
  macAddress  String
  status      String

  locationId  String
  location    Location @relation(fields:[locationId], references:[id])

  customers   Customer[]
}

model Customer {
  id          String @id @default(uuid())
  name        String
  phone       String

  routerId    String
  router      Router @relation(fields:[routerId], references:[id])

  packageId   String
  package     Package @relation(fields:[packageId], references:[id])
}

model Package {
  id          String @id @default(uuid())
  name        String
  speed       Int
  price       Float
}

The important relationship is:

ISP
 |
 |-- Reseller
       |
       |-- Location
              |
              |-- Router
                     |
                     |-- Customers

This gives you flexibility.


---

For example:

Today:

Nexus ISP
 |
 Amina Reseller
      |
      Home Router
           |
           20 customers

Tomorrow:

Nexus ISP
 |
 Amina Reseller
      |
      Shop Router
           |
           50 customers

      |
      Apartment Router
           |
           80 customers

No database redesign needed.


---

Another thing I would add from the beginning:

Role-based access control

Because different people see different things.

Example:

ISP Admin

Can:

manage all resellers

approve packages

see revenue

control bandwidth rules


Reseller

Can:

manage own locations

create customers

sell vouchers


Customer

Can:

manage WiFi

view package

pay bills



---

Your future Rust OpenWrt agent can fit later:

OpenWrt Router
       |
       |
Rust Agent
       |
       |
Secure API
       |
       |
Node.js Backend
       |
       |
PostgreSQL

The router agent should not directly access the database.


---

For your 3-week demo, I would simplify.

Do not build:

real firmware,

real bandwidth shaping,

real VPN,

real payment integration.


Build:

Demo Version 1:

✅ Multi-tenant architecture
✅ ISP dashboard
✅ Reseller dashboard
✅ Customer management
✅ Package management
✅ Voucher generation
✅ Router simulation

Then when you meet an ISP, you can say:

> "This is the management layer. The next step is integrating with your existing network equipment."



That sounds professional.


---

One more thing, Haitham: your decision to use PostgreSQL + Prisma is also valuable because if you later turn this into a SaaS product, PostgreSQL can handle the kind of relational data this business needs.

The next thing I would do before coding is create the system architecture document:

actors,

database entities,

permissions,

API modules,

frontend pages,

future OpenWrt agent communication.


That document itself can impress the ISP technical team.

I think the next discussion we should have is: how to present this ISP project to the technical director so they see you as a developer they need, not just someone asking for a job.

Haitham, this is the most important part because the way you present the idea will determine whether they see you as:

1. A person asking for employment, or


2. A software engineer bringing a business opportunity.



Your goal should be the second one.

Remember: an ISP director is usually not thinking like a programmer. They are thinking about:

increasing revenue,

reducing costs,

getting more customers,

reducing customer complaints,

staying competitive.


So do not start with technology. Start with the business problem.


---

Meeting structure with ISP Director

1. Opening (30 seconds)

Do not start with:

> "I have an idea about OpenWrt, routers, Rust, AI, and MikroTik."



That is technical and may lose them.

Start with:

> "I am a software developer specializing in management systems and automation. I have studied the current challenges facing residential fiber customers and I believe there is an opportunity to improve customer experience while creating a new revenue channel for ISPs."



This immediately positions you differently.


---

2. Explain the current problem

Example:

> "Today many fiber customers depend on customer support for basic services such as changing WiFi settings, managing their network, and controlling users. This creates unnecessary support costs and limits how customers use their internet connection."



Then add:

> "At the same time, many people want to create small internet businesses in their neighborhoods, but existing solutions are expensive and mostly designed for enterprise customers."



This connects two problems.


---

3. Present your solution

Do not say:

"I want to replace your system."

Say:

> "The solution is a management platform that works together with the ISP's existing infrastructure."



Draw:

Existing ISP Network
        |
        |
Your ISP Platform
        |
 --------------------
 |                  |
Customer Portal   ISP Dashboard
 |
Reseller Features

Explain:

For ISP:

Control customers better.

Offer new reseller packages.

Increase revenue.

Reduce support workload.


For customers:

More control.

Self-service.

Business opportunity.



---

4. Show the business model

This part will interest directors.

Example:

Today:

Customer: 50,000 TZS/month

Future:

Customer upgrades:

Reseller package: 120,000 TZS/month

Then:

ISP earns more.

You earn through:

platform subscription,

transaction percentage,

maintenance contract.


Do not focus on your percentage first. Focus on their revenue.


---

5. Explain your role

This is where you connect employment.

Say:

> "I am interested in joining your technical team as a software developer where I can help improve your existing systems and develop this platform together with your technical requirements."



Important:

You are not asking them to hire you because you need money.

You are showing why hiring you creates value.


---

6. Address the diploma issue before they ask

Be honest but confident.

Example:

> "Regarding my education documents, I completed my diploma studies, but I currently have an outstanding fee balance that prevents me from collecting the final certificate and transcript. I can provide my IT certificate, previous academic records, GitHub portfolio, and deployed systems that demonstrate my practical ability. My plan is to clear the balance and submit the documents."



Do not apologize excessively.


---

7. Bring proof

Bring:

Laptop:

Show:

school management system

tourism CMS

e-commerce system

GitHub


Documents:

CV

IT certificate

portfolio link

project architecture


ISP proposal:

5–10 pages maximum.


---

Very important: do not reveal everything immediately

Your long-term vision is big:

multiple ISPs,

reseller ecosystem,

your own company.


During the first meeting, focus on:

> "How can I help your company improve?"



Not:

> "How can I build my future company?"



Your first objective is trust.


---

Possible questions they may ask

"Do you have ISP experience?"

Answer:

> "My background is software engineering and management systems. I am bringing software expertise to solve ISP operational problems. I am also willing to learn your infrastructure and work with your network team."




---

"Why should we choose you without a diploma?"

Answer:

> "My practical work demonstrates my ability. I have built and deployed real systems, and I can demonstrate my code and applications."




---

"How long will this take?"

Do not promise a full production system.

Say:

> "A pilot version can be developed quickly after understanding your existing infrastructure. Production implementation will depend on integration requirements."




---

Haitham, one advantage you have is that you are not coming with only an idea. You have a history of building software. The biggest challenge is packaging yourself correctly.

The next thing I would suggest is that we create your **actual 2-page ISP proposal document** that you can print or send to the director. It should look like a business proposal, not a developer document.

I will create it in a format suitable for an ISP director. The goal is not to expose every technical detail, but to communicate business value, opportunity, and your ability to execute.

Proposal: ISP Customer Management & Community Internet Expansion Platform

Presented by: Haitham Salehe Misape

Software Developer | Full-Stack Systems Developer

---

1. Introduction

The internet market is rapidly growing, especially with the expansion of fiber networks across Tanzania. As more customers adopt fiber internet, ISPs face new opportunities and challenges:

- Increasing customer expectations for better control over their internet service.
- Growing demand for self-service features.
- Increasing customer support workload for simple requests.
- Opportunities to expand internet access through community-based distribution models.

This proposal introduces a software platform designed to help ISPs improve customer experience, create new service opportunities, and increase operational efficiency while working together with existing ISP infrastructure.

---

2. Current Market Challenges

Many residential fiber customers currently depend on ISP support teams for basic actions such as:

- Changing WiFi credentials.
- Managing connected devices.
- Monitoring internet usage.
- Controlling access to their home network.
- Requesting service upgrades.

This creates unnecessary support requests and limits customer flexibility.

At the same time, many individuals and small businesses are interested in providing internet services within their communities but face challenges:

- Expensive enterprise networking solutions.
- Complex configurations.
- Lack of simple management tools.

---

3. Proposed Solution

The proposed platform is an ISP management and customer empowerment system that integrates with existing ISP infrastructure.

The platform provides:

Customer Self-Service Portal

Customers can:

- Manage their internet settings.
- View service information.
- Monitor usage.
- Manage connected devices.
- Request service upgrades.
- Access additional ISP-approved services.

---

ISP Management Dashboard

ISPs can:

- Manage customers and service packages.
- Monitor connected devices.
- Reduce support workload.
- Create new service packages.
- Manage authorized resellers.
- Analyze customer usage and growth opportunities.

---

Community Internet Expansion Feature

The platform enables ISPs to introduce controlled reseller packages.

Approved customers can become community internet distributors using ISP-approved packages.

Example:

A fiber customer can request a reseller package, receive approval from the ISP, and provide controlled internet access to nearby users.

Benefits:

ISP:

- Additional revenue channels.
- Faster customer growth.
- Increased fiber utilization.
- Reduced customer acquisition costs.

Customer:

- Opportunity to create a small internet business.
- Affordable access to management tools.
- No need for expensive enterprise systems.

---

4. Implementation Approach

The platform will be developed in phases.

Phase One: Prototype System

Development of:

- ISP administration dashboard.
- Customer management.
- Reseller account management.
- Package management.
- Voucher management.
- Router/device management simulation.

Phase Two: ISP Integration

Integration with existing ISP systems depending on infrastructure:

- Network management systems.
- Customer databases.
- Authentication systems.
- Existing billing platforms.

Phase Three: Advanced Features

Future expansion:

- Managed OpenWrt router support.
- Automated customer device management.
- Multi-location reseller management.
- Advanced monitoring and analytics.

---

5. Value to the ISP

This platform can help the ISP:

Increase Revenue

Through:

- New reseller packages.
- More customers.
- Additional service offerings.

Reduce Operational Costs

By:

- Reducing manual customer support requests.
- Automating common customer actions.

Improve Customer Loyalty

By:

- Giving customers more control.
- Providing modern digital services.

Increase Market Competitiveness

By offering features that differentiate the ISP from competitors.

---

6. About the Developer

I am a software developer specializing in:

- Full-stack web applications.
- SaaS platforms.
- Business management systems.
- Automation solutions.

My practical experience includes developing and deploying:

- School management platforms.
- Multi-tenant systems.
- E-commerce solutions.
- Business management applications.

I use modern technologies including:

- React / Next.js
- Node.js
- PostgreSQL
- Prisma ORM
- API development
- Cloud deployment

I am interested in joining an ISP technical team where I can contribute software development skills, improve existing systems, and help develop innovative solutions for future growth.

---

7. Proposed Collaboration

I would like to discuss the possibility of joining the technical team and developing a pilot version of this platform based on the company's current infrastructure, business goals, and customer needs.

The objective is to create a practical solution that improves customer experience, creates new revenue opportunities, and supports the ISP's long-term growth.

Contact:
Haitham Salehe Misape
Software Developer
GitHub Portfolio: [Insert Link]
Project Portfolio: [Insert Links]This version is intentionally written for a director/owner, not an engineer. It focuses on business value first.

Before you print or send it, I would make two more improvements:

1. Add your actual GitHub and deployed project links.


2. Add a one-page architecture diagram showing ISP → Platform → Customer/Reseller.



That diagram will make the idea much easier for a non-programmer director to understand.

